---
title: Why I Switched from Wordpress to Hexo
date: 2016-01-15 23:20:53
tags: 
 - programming
 - hexo
 - wordpress
category: Tech
---

We've been working with Wordpress a lot lately over at <a href="http://solarsailtech.com">Solar Sail</a>.  A lot of our clients are interested in implementing a content management system to make it easier for them to update the content on their websites.  Over the years Wordpress has become the big man on campus in the world of content management systems so it is often requested by name.  The problem is that our clients don't tend to have huge budgets that allow us to bring in a designer to create a custom design for them.  Instead, what we tend to do is go out and find a free or inexpensive theme that they like and then "tweak" it for our needs.  Often, these themes are purchaed from a theme shop such as Theme Forest. And, although these themes always look nice on the surface they tend to be absolute nightmares to work with.  These theme developers go out of their way to make things as difficult as possible to modify.  I don't know how many times I've been trying to do something as simple as change the background color of a div so I take a look at the source code and see this:

```html
<div style="background-color: #FFF !Important;">Awesome Content!</div>
```

And of course this HTML is nowhere to be found in any template file.  No, it's being generated by Wordpress so it's time to start wading through what can be literally hundreds of php functions trying to find the one that creates this code.  It's just a horrible experience.

This isn't my only problem with Wordpress.  It has gotten seriously bloated over the years.  The wordpress core files along with a theme and a handful of plugins can easily be thousands of files and be gigabytes in size.  Not to mention the MySQL database that needs to go along for the ride.  Now, if you're managing a large site and you're using WooCommerce or somethign similar for ecommerce on your Wordpress site than maybe all of this is necessary.  But, if you're running a blog or small-scale site do you really need to be managing all of those files.  Not only that, but Wordpress is constantly needing to be updated to account for all of the security vulnerabilites.

## A Different Approach

So, what are the alternatives?  Are other content management systems better?  Joomla! maybe?  Or Drupal?  No, these platforms all suffer from the same problems in my opinion. I really started to think that maybe the best thing to do is just manage static HTML files in a source control system.  I mean, I know HTML, it would be no problem for me to edit posts and pages directly as opposed to the wysiwyg editor that comes with Wordpress.  But there are problems with this approach of course.  First of all, Wordpress provides a lot of functionality that you may take for granted such as categories, tagging, comments, archives, and friendly URLs.  Although the HTML files themselves would not be hard for me to manage, this other stuff would be very difficult.

## In Steps Hexo

I began doing some research and came across the concept of a [static site generator](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/11/modern-static-website-generators-next-big-thing/).  This was something new to me but as I read more I realized how much sense it makes!  Without server-side code and databases you are virtually eliminating security vulnerabilites.  Not to mention the fact that you are streamlining your entire development and maintenance workflows down to editing a bunch of text files.   After dealing with Wordpress and all the complexities that come along with it, the idea of going back to basics really intrigued me.  So, I did some research and came across [staticgen.com](https://www.staticgen.com/).  This site lists all of the most popular site generators available today.  I took a look at a few of them and finally settled on [Hexo](https://hexo.io/) because it was blog-focused and a blog is exactly what I was looking to build.  

Next: Working with Hexo